To make this favorite button working let's firstly define
a new routes in routes/web.php file let's open
that file
and here let's define a new route
that's going to be used for favoriting
the question here we can say route post
There uri will be questions
question
favorites
and we'll handle the logic in favorites controller store action
and we might give this route a name as questions favorite.
And then let's define another route that's going to be used to unfavorite the question. Here we can simply
duplicate this line.
The method will be delete because we'll remove the
resource and I'm going to use the same uri
we'll handle the logic in the favorites controller destroy action
and we might give this route a name as questions unfavorite.
All right let's create this favorites controller jump to our terminal.
And here we can say: php artisan
make controller favorites controller
OK
let's open the favorites controller file
and in here
Let's first define the store method
type-hint the question instance
here we can attach the question or make it to be
favorited by current user by saying question favorites
attach auth id
after that we can refresh the page by calling return back
the second let's defend the destroy method
type-hint the question instance
and here we can remove the relationship record by saying question favorites detach auth id
and don't forget to reload the page.
And here we need to import the namespace of the question model
The last but not least we also need to define a constructor
and here we'll call authentication middleware to make
sure that the user that will favorite or unfavorite
the question has signed in
and the final step
let's go back to show.blade.php
and here we can distinguish the state of this
button by changing its color dynamically.
So if the user has not signed in
then we'll add off class
otherwise if the current user has signed in
and he has favorited the current question
then we'll add favorited class or we'll add nothing if
the current user not favorited the current question.
Next to make this favorite button actually
work we need to do two things.
First we need to define on click attributes. Actually
let's copy that from the accept button
paste here and change the id to favorite
question and change this to question id
the second let's
define a form. And again we can simply
copy the form from the accept control
paste here
change the id to favorite question
question id
and here we'll use this form for two purposes favorite the question and unfavorite the question.  Since we have
defined the same uri pattern for favoriting
and unfavoriting the question
So here
So here we can specify the uri instead of route name.
And here we can check if the current question is
favorited then will we define delete method
all right let's save all changes
and see if it work as we expect
Let me reload this page
here
I have this button in light gray color.
So let me see
OK
This should be auth guest
reload again.
Here the button in yellow color which means
the current user has favorited this question.
Now if I hit this button
the button's color changed and the favorites count is decreasing.
If I hit this again
the color turns to yellow and the favorites count increasing.
Let me see another question.
And then I'll hit this button
OK great.
Let me copy this url and I'll open
incognito window
paste here.
As you can see the favorite button's color
a bit light gray. And if I hit this button
I'll be taken to the login form
OK great
We have successfully implemented many to many
relationship and make the favorite button really working.
Let's take a break and we'll continue our journey and add another feature to our application in a next
lesson.